=====================================
Fedora 41 with net-snmp 5.6 Docker
=====================================

Overview
========

This Docker image provides a testing environment based on Fedora 41 (latest stable) with:

* **Base OS**: Fedora 41
* **GCC**: Native GCC 14.x (g++ 14.x, exceeds g++ 9.5 minimum — no toolset wrapper needed)
* **Python Versions**: 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 3.14 (all from source builds)
* **Virtual Environment**: /opt/venv (Python 3.14 with all project dependencies pre-installed)
* **net-snmp**: 5.6.4 (built from source against OpenSSL 1.0.2u)
* **OpenSSL**: 1.0.2u (built from source, installed to /usr/local/openssl10)
* **C++ Testing**: Full g++ 14 support for cpp_tests with coverage reporting
* **Python Testing**: Full support for python_tests with coverage reporting
* **Image Size**: Optimized to minimal size through consolidated RUN statements and cache cleanup

Building
========

To build the image locally:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd docker/fedora41_netsnmp_5.6
    docker-compose build

Running
=======

To run the container with automatic setup:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd docker/fedora41_netsnmp_5.6
    ./go_docker.sh

Or manually:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker-compose up -d
    docker exec -it fedora41_netsnmp_5.6_snmp_container /bin/bash

Testing
=======

Inside the container, run tests with:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Python tests
    cd /ezsnmp
    pytest python_tests/

    # C++ tests
    cd /ezsnmp/cpp_tests
    ./get_test_coverage.sh

Python Versions
===============

All Python versions are compiled from source:

* Python 3.10.16
* Python 3.11.11
* Python 3.12.8
* Python 3.13.7
* Python 3.14.2 (default venv)

GCC
===

Fedora 41 ships with native GCC 14.x which provides:

* GCC 14.x compiler suite (no toolset wrapper required)
* Support for modern C++ features
* Full compatibility with C++17/C++20/C++23 standards

The compiler is available system-wide without any PATH modifications.

net-snmp 5.6.4
==============

net-snmp 5.6.4 requires OpenSSL 1.0.x — it is not compatible with the system
OpenSSL 3.x shipped by Fedora 41. OpenSSL 1.0.2u is therefore built from source
and installed into ``/usr/local/openssl10``. net-snmp is then configured to use
that private OpenSSL installation via ``--with-openssl=/usr/local/openssl10``.

net-snmp 5.6.4 is older code that contains implicit function declarations which
modern GCC 14 would reject as errors. The Dockerfile passes the following
compatibility flags to the configure step to allow compilation to succeed:

.. code-block:: bash

    CFLAGS="-Wno-error=implicit-function-declaration \
            -Wno-error=incompatible-pointer-types \
            -Wno-error=int-conversion"

The build uses ``-j1`` and ``MALLOC_CHECK_=0`` for stability. The
``ENV MALLOC_CHECK_=0`` and ``ENV LD_LIBRARY_PATH`` environment variables are set
in the image to ensure the OpenSSL 1.0 shared libraries are found at runtime.

.. note::
   This content was generated by AI and reviewed by humans. Mistakes may still occur. PRs for corrections are welcome.
