====================================
Docker Hub Images For Ezsnmp Testing
====================================

Overview
========

This project uses pre-built Docker images hosted on Docker Hub for running unit tests across various Linux distributions. This ensures a consistent and reproducible testing environment. The following distributions are supported:

* **almalinux10** - AlmaLinux 10 Kitten (preview) with Python 3.9-3.13, g++ 14.x (3.9-3.11 from source)
* **archlinux** - Arch Linux (latest) with Python 3.9-3.13, g++ 14.x (3.9-3.12 from source)
* **archlinux_netsnmp_5.8** - Arch Linux with net-snmp 5.8 for compatibility testing, g++ 14.x (3.9-3.12 from source)
* **centos7** - CentOS 7 with devtoolset-11 (g++ 11.2.1), Python 3.9-3.13 all from source (OpenSSL 1.1.1w built to enable SSL)
* **rockylinux8** - Rocky Linux 8 with gcc-toolset-11 (g++ 11.3.1), Python 3.9-3.13 (3.10, 3.13 from source)

All images support:

* **g++ 9.5 or higher** for C++ compilation
* **Python 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13** (source builds provided where distro lacks versions)
* **Virtual environment at /opt/venv** (Python 3.13 or latest available) with both ``requirements.txt`` and ``python_tests/requirements.txt`` pre-installed
* **Both cpp_tests and python_tests** test suites
* **Optimized for minimal image size** (combined RUNs, cache cleanup, removal of build artifacts)

The base repository for these images is: **carlkidcrypto/ezsnmp\_test\_images** https://hub.docker.com/r/carlkidcrypto/ezsnmp_test_images

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Running a Container Locally
===========================

To run a specific distribution image locally, you must use the ``-d`` (detached) flag to keep the container running and mount your local source code into the container (typically at ``/ezsnmp``).

**1. Pull the Image (Optional, if not already cached):**

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo docker pull carlkidcrypto/ezsnmp_test_images:almalinux10

**2. Run the Container and Start the Service:**

The command below runs the container, mounts the current directory (``$(pwd)``) to ``/ezsnmp`` inside the container, exposes UDP port 161 (for SNMP communication), and runs the distribution-specific entry script (``DockerEntry.sh``). A virtualenv with dependencies is already active via ``PATH`` modification.

.. code-block:: bash

    # Use the /bin/bash -c "..." wrapper to execute the entry script
    # to keep the container alive by running
    # Replace 'almalinux10' with any supported distribution (e.g., 'rockylinux8').
    
    sudo docker run -d \
      --name "almalinux10_snmp_container" \
      -v "$(pwd):/ezsnmp" \
      -p 161/udp \
      carlkidcrypto/ezsnmp_test_images:almalinux10 \
      /bin/bash -c "/ezsnmp/docker/almalinux10/DockerEntry.sh"

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Executing Unit Tests
====================

Once the container is running in detached mode, you can use ``docker exec`` to run your tests (e.g., using ``tox``) and copy the results back to your host machine.

**1. Run Tests Inside the Container:**

.. code-block:: bash

    # Execute tox for a default environment (like on almalinux10)
    sudo docker exec -t almalinux10_snmp_container /bin/bash -c '
      tox > test-outputs_almalinux10.txt 2>&1;
      mv test-results.xml test-results_almalinux10.xml;
    '

    # Example for a specific environment (like py312 on rockylinux8)
    sudo docker exec -t rockylinux8_snmp_container /bin/bash -c '
      source /opt/venv/bin/activate;
      tox -e py312 > test-outputs_rockylinux8_py312.txt 2>&1;
      mv test-results.xml test-results_rockylinux8_py312.xml;
    '

**2. Copy Results to Host:**

.. code-block:: bash

    # Copy the results back to the current directory
    sudo docker cp almalinux10_snmp_container:/ezsnmp/test-results_almalinux10.xml .
    sudo docker cp almalinux10_snmp_container:/ezsnmp/test-outputs_almalinux10.txt .

**3. Cleanup:**

Stop and remove the container once testing is complete (or use the provided helper scripts described below):
Helper Scripts
==============
From the ``docker`` directory:

* ``build_and_publish_images.sh`` – Builds (repo root context) and pushes all distro images or a selected one.
* ``run_python_tests_in_all_dockers.sh`` – Pulls images and executes tox for py39–py313 across all distros.
* ``run_cpp_tests_in_all_dockers.sh`` – Pulls images and runs Meson/Ninja C++ tests + coverage.

Example (build single image):

.. code-block:: bash

  ./build_and_publish_images.sh <docker_user> <docker_pat> centos7

Example (run python tests in all images):

.. code-block:: bash

  ./run_python_tests_in_all_dockers.sh

All scripts assume access to the repository root when mounting inside containers at ``/ezsnmp``.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo docker stop almalinux10_snmp_container
    sudo docker rm almalinux10_snmp_container

----

.. note::
   This content was generated by AI and reviewed by humans. Mistakes may still occur. PRs for corrections are welcome.