=======
Integration Tests
=======

A collection of scripts developed to help test real life usage scenarios.

Available Tests
---------------

test_snmp_bulkwalk.py
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tests SNMP bulk walk operations with multiple threads or processes.

Usage:

.. code:: bash

    python3 test_snmp_bulkwalk.py <num_workers> <thread|process>

Examples:

.. code:: bash

    # Run with 8 threads
    python3 test_snmp_bulkwalk.py 8 thread
    
    # Run with 4 processes
    python3 test_snmp_bulkwalk.py 4 process

test_snmp_get.py
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tests SNMP get operations with multiple threads or processes.

Usage:

.. code:: bash

    python3 test_snmp_get.py <num_workers> <thread|process>

Examples:

.. code:: bash

    # Run with 8 threads
    python3 test_snmp_get.py 8 thread
    
    # Run with 4 processes
    python3 test_snmp_get.py 4 process

test_snmp_walk.py
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tests SNMP walk operations with multiple threads or processes.

Usage:

.. code:: bash

    python3 test_snmp_walk.py <num_workers> <thread|process>

Examples:

.. code:: bash

    # Run with 8 threads
    python3 test_snmp_walk.py 8 thread
    
    # Run with 4 processes
    python3 test_snmp_walk.py 4 process

test_file_descriptors.py
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tests file descriptor handling and management during SNMP operations.

Usage:

.. code:: bash

    python3 test_file_descriptors.py

By default, the script exercises multiple session operations in subprocesses
with and without explicit session.close():

- get
- get_next
- walk
- bulk_get (skipped for v1)
- bulk_walk (skipped for v1)
- set (writes back the current sysLocation value to avoid changes)

Optional log destination:

.. code:: bash

    python3 test_file_descriptors.py /path/to/log_dir
    python3 test_file_descriptors.py /path/to/custom_log.log

If a directory is provided, the log file is named snmp_fd_test_output.log.

All Tests
---------

To run all integration tests, use:

.. code:: bash

    bash run_integration_tests.sh    

----

.. note::
   This content was generated by AI and reviewed by humans. Mistakes may still occur. PRs for corrections are welcome.    